
## Presentations and Posters

### [Why is a Raven like a Writing Desk?](pdf/CRIDC2020.pdf)

Poster presented at the 2021 virtual Career, Research, Innovation and
Development Conference (CRIDC) at GA Tech. 

There is much discussion about the ethics and perceived bias in machine learning
and artificial intelligence. We took what we believe to be a somewhat different
approach to the question -- do we really know what we are training such models
on? More specifically, are we training on characteristics that are truly innate
or merely on our own implicit perceptions of associations?

[![Why is a Raven like a Writing
Desk?](images/CRIDC2020_thumb.png)](pdf/CRIDC2020.pdf)

---

### [The Archaeology of Data](pdf/Cardinal_James_ArchaeologyOfData.pdf)

Poster presented at the 2020 virtual Career, Research, Innovation and
Development Conference (CRIDC) at GA Tech. Winner of the Executive Vice
President for Research (EVPR) Award for Best Graduate Student poster.
  
When one thinks of archaeology, it may suggest ancient civilizations, exotic art
and objects in museums, or portrayals in popular media such as “Indiana Jones”
or “Lara Croft”. It might be difficult to imagine a world any more different
from the advanced technologies and mathematics of data science. The actual
practice of archaeology, however, has many surprising parallels with modern data
science – stochastic and inhomogeneous spatial processes, classification and
clustering problems, social network and graph analysis, and managing
unstructured data ontologies. The true commonality, though, is that both are
interested in developing methodologies for converting data into information,
with the goal of transforming that information into knowledge.

[![The Archaeology of
Data](images/CRIDC2019_thumb.png)](pdf/Cardinal_James_ArchaeologyOfData.pdf)

---

### [Point and Line to Hyperplane](https://youtu.be/sMj125KFeiM)

Recording of a paper I presented at the 2019 Computer Applications and
Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA) international conference at
Jagiellonian University in Kraków, Poland. The topic was discussing the various
abstractions and formalization involved in parsing complex systems of sets in
an archaeological context, but I drift into a bit of information theory,
distance norms, and high dimensionality.

[![Point and Line to
Hyperplane](images/CAA2019_thumb.png)](https://youtu.be/sMj125KFeiM)

---

### [Matrix in the Network](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOTs4X5PiDw&feature=share)

Recording of a paper I presented at the 2018 Computer Applications and
Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA) international conference at the
University of Tübingen, Germany. The topic was possible applications of set and
graph theory to the analysis of archaeological assemblages.

[![Matrix in the
Network](images/CAA2018_thumb.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOTs4X5PiDw&feature=share)